This project is posted to demonstrate my competency using Pandas.  While I have experience with advanced statistical modeling, my competency in statistical modeling is demonstrated in my dissertation and other publications/presentations.  Data cleaning tends to be more time-consuming and complicated in data science compared to academic research.  Therefore, the current project presents an important feature of my current skillset.  Note that some of the code uses loops which could be written with a more computationally efficient approach (e.g., fuzzy wuzzy with pandas’ apply method).  I’ve chosen the current approach to demonstrate my flexibility within Python rather than maximal efficiency.

The ultimate goal of this task was to evaluate realty broker performance using apartment unit inspection data.  The data contained 4 inspection outcomes: “pass,” “fail,” “must fix,” and “NO ACCESS.”  Realty broker performance was evaluated by computing the frequencies of each broker’s inspection outcomes.  Brokers with a high number of “passes” were considered good performers.  Brokers with a high number of fails were considered poor performers.

Analytically, this is a simple task, but the preliminary data cleaning was relatively more complex.  Inspection results for each broker were contained in two separate datasets that needed to be merged.  The first data set contained initial inspection outcomes, broker names and client names (i.e., clients who live in the apartments being inspected).  The second data set contained client names and follow-up inspection outcomes.  The only way to merge these two datasets was on client names.  Unfortunately, client names were not formatted consistently between the two datasets.  In the second dataset, some names appeared in the format, FIRST_NAME LAST_NAME, while other name appeared in the reverse-order, LAST_NAME, FIRST_NAME.

The code in this project (1) prepares two DataFrames using each dataset for accurately merging on client name, (2) uses loops to traverse client names from each dataset to build a dictionary that links irregular formats of the same name between datasets, (3) and uses that dictionary to replace irregularly formatted names in second dataset with the names as they appear in the first dataset.  The code also reports a pretest-posttest comparison of the number of rows contained in the merged DataFrame before and after the application of the reformatting script.  A reduction in the number of rows after the reformatting script demonstrates its effectiveness.  
